Alrightie.
Let's look at our REST API and making it Read Only.
So Spring Data REST
will expose all these endpoints for free.
So we get support for POST, GET, PUT, DELETE,
so four CRUD operations.
But actually, this is not what I want.
I want the REST API to be Read Only,
especially with release 1.0 of our application.
In release 1.0, we're simply listing products.
So, in this case, we really want it to be Read Only.
And I don't want anyone on the outside
to be able to add new products, or delete products.
I don't want that right now.
So I'd like to disable the POST method,
allow the GET methods, disable the PUT method,
and also disable the DELETE method.
So how can we do this?
Well there's some possible solutions:
Option one is, simply don't use Spring Data REST.
So in this case,
we could manually create our own REST controller,
and manually define methods for access using @GetMapping.
But we'd loose the Spring Data support for paging,
sorting, and so on.
Those are some really nice features.
I don't want to loose those.
And the other option is to use Spring Data REST,
but configure it to disable certain HTTP methods,
like POST, DELETE, et cetera.
And this is the one that we'll choose.
And then you're probably wondering, well,
what about security?
And that's a very good point.
So, we'll actually cover REST API security
later in the course,
so it'll apply security to only allow access
to certain methods for certain authorized users.
But for now, just for release one, we'll simply disable
certain methods, and make the API Read Only.
But don't worry.
We'll talk about security later in the course.
All right so let's look at setting up
the Spring Data REST configuration.
So we're going to disable the HTTP methods
for POST, PUT, and DELETE.
So we'll create this special configuration class.
We'll have this MyDataRestConfig
that implements RepositoryRestConfigurer.
And this interface is from the Spring Data REST API.
And we'll simply override this method
or implement this method,
for ConfigureRepositoryRestConfiguration.
We'll simply set up a list of HTTP methods
to disable for PUT, POST, DELETE.
And then in the configuration,
we'll say that it's for this given domain type,
Product.class.
So this is for the product repo.
And we'll set up the configuration
for single item and also collection.
And then, this API makes use of the fancy
Java Lambdas annotation.
So we have a parens for metadata, httpMethods,
the arrow symbol, that's Java Lambdas.
And we specify the method here,
we get httpMethods.disable,
and we pass in that array that we created
a little earlier, theunsupportedActions.
And this block of code
will essentially disable the methods
for POST, PUT, and DELETE for our productRestRepository.
Alrightie, that's it.
So let's go ahead and move it to our IDE
and let's add this new configuration class
and test it out.